Nix/PHP/compile-php-5.6-centos-7.md, before:

# How to Compile PHP-5.6 on Centos 7

PHP is a general purpose scripting language but it's mainly used for web development. Today heavy load web sites such as: [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com) and [Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org) are powered by PHP. If you are new in the PHP world and you are looking a programming language for your project you will find.

**Community features like:**
- Active development
- Great community
- Good documentation, books and blogs
 
**Languages features like:**
- Database drivers: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Firebird, MSSQL, SQL Server ...
- Namespaces
- Object Oriented Programming
- Reflection
- File handlers
- Text processing (PCRE)
- Error handling
- Exception handling
- Generators
- Web scraping
- Low learning curve

If you want to get the last features from PHP such us: variadic functions, argument unpacking, large file uploads and more then you need to compile by yourself because mayor distributions like CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu never has the las version of PHP.

## Download PHP packages

Go to http://php.net site Downloads section and select the PHP-6.X.X version that you want to compile (5.6.12 at time of writing this articule), select your nearest mirror and downloat it then upload to your server using **rsycn** or **scp**. Another simple solution is typing in your console from your server

```bash
# wget http://us1.php.net/distributions/php-5.6.12.tar.xz
```

## Unpacking PHP packages

In the previous step we download a php-5.6.12.tar.xz file so we can unpackage it using tar tool

```bash
# tar xJvf php-5.6.12.tar.xz
```
where

**x** = extract,
**J** = handle [xz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xz) file format,
**v** = verbose,
**f** = file

## Installing GNU Compiler Collection and essential tools for compiling process
```bash
# yum -y install gcc gcc-c++ make automake autoconf bison flex libtool libstdc++-devel
```

## Installing dependencies

We will compile PHP with XML, SSL, PCRE, SQLite, bzip2, curl, GD, mcrypt ... support. mcrypt is available in [EPEL](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL) repo then you need to type

```
# yum -y install epel-release
```

After

```
# yum -y install libxml2-devel openssl openssl-devel pcre-devel sqlite-devel bzip2-devel \
libcurl-devel libicu-devel gd-devel readline-devel libmcrypt-devel systemd-devel
```

## Download php-build.sh script from [Github](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yoander/sysadmin/master/shscript/php-build.sh)

php-build.sh script is helper for PHP compilation process. Enable the most used extensions as: curl, openssl, intl, mysql, pcre, ... and allows to install PHP in custom dir, offers options to compile PHP with Apache (prefork or worker) or fpm support. If you compile PHP with fpm support you must edit php-build.sh and set the user and group under the fpm process will be run

``` bash
# wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yoander/sysadmin/master/shscript/php-build.sh && \
chmod a+x php-build.sh
```

## Build PHP with fpm support and systemd integration

First create necessary DIR that will be used during compilation processs

```bash
# mkdir -p /etc/php/conf.d /usr/lib/php/modules /usr/share/pear
```

Create PCRE symbolic link to avoid: "configure: error: Could not find libpcre.(a|so) in /usr"

```
# ln -s /usr/lib64/libpcre.so.1.2.0 /usr/lib/libpcre.so
```

Then

```
# ./php-build.sh -fs php-5.6.12
```

where **-f** = fpm support, **s** = systemd integration

## Install

```bash
#  cd php-5.6.12 && make install
```

## Creating configuration file

PHP source code comes with 2 ini files versions: development and production how we're compiling for PROD server we type the following command. Adjust the ini directives according your needed

```bash
# cp -v php.ini-production /etc/php/php.ini
```

## Creating PHP-FPM configuration file

PHP-FPM (FastCGI Process Manager) is an alternative FastCGI implementation for PHP, bundled with the official PHP distribution since version 5.3.3. Adjust fpm values according your needed

```bash
# cp -pv /etc/php/php-fpm.conf.default /etc/php/php-fpm.conf
```

## Creating PHP-FPM init service

```bash
# cp -v ./sapi/fpm/php-fpm.service /usr/lib/systemd/system/php-fpm.service
```

If the user and group under the fpm process will be run does not exists then you must created it before start php-fpm service.

```bash
# groupadd --system www-data && useradd --system -m -d /var/www  -s /usr/sbin/nologin -g www-data www-data
```

Commit message:

Change owner and perms for /var/www

Nix/PHP/compile-php-5.6-centos-7.md, after:

# How to Compile PHP-5.6 on Centos 7

PHP is a general purpose scripting language but it's mainly used for web development. Today heavy load web sites such as: [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com) and [Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org) are powered by PHP. If you are new in the PHP world and you are looking a programming language for your project you will find.

**Community features like:**
- Active development
- Great community
- Good documentation, books and blogs
 
**Languages features like:**
- Database drivers: MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, Firebird, MSSQL, SQL Server ...
- Namespaces
- Object Oriented Programming
- Reflection
- File handlers
- Text processing (PCRE)
- Error handling
- Exception handling
- Generators
- Web scraping
- Low learning curve

If you want to get the last features from PHP such us: variadic functions, argument unpacking, large file uploads and more then you need to compile by yourself because mayor distributions like CentOS, Debian, Ubuntu never has the las version of PHP.

## Download PHP packages

Go to http://php.net site Downloads section and select the PHP-6.X.X version that you want to compile (5.6.12 at time of writing this articule), select your nearest mirror and downloat it then upload to your server using **rsycn** or **scp**. Another simple solution is typing in your console from your server

```bash
# wget http://us1.php.net/distributions/php-5.6.12.tar.xz
```

## Unpacking PHP packages

In the previous step we download a php-5.6.12.tar.xz file so we can unpackage it using tar tool

```bash
# tar xJvf php-5.6.12.tar.xz
```
where

**x** = extract,
**J** = handle [xz](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xz) file format,
**v** = verbose,
**f** = file

## Installing GNU Compiler Collection and essential tools for compiling process
```bash
# yum -y install gcc gcc-c++ make automake autoconf bison flex libtool libstdc++-devel
```

## Installing dependencies

We will compile PHP with XML, SSL, PCRE, SQLite, bzip2, curl, GD, mcrypt ... support. mcrypt is available in [EPEL](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL) repo then you need to type

```
# yum -y install epel-release
```

After

```
# yum -y install libxml2-devel openssl openssl-devel pcre-devel sqlite-devel bzip2-devel \
libcurl-devel libicu-devel gd-devel readline-devel libmcrypt-devel systemd-devel
```

## Download php-build.sh script from [Github](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yoander/sysadmin/master/shscript/php-build.sh)

php-build.sh script is helper for PHP compilation process. Enable the most used extensions as: curl, openssl, intl, mysql, pcre, ... and allows to install PHP in custom dir, offers options to compile PHP with Apache (prefork or worker) or fpm support. If you compile PHP with fpm support you must edit php-build.sh and set the user and group under the fpm process will be run

``` bash
# wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yoander/sysadmin/master/shscript/php-build.sh && \
chmod a+x php-build.sh
```

## Build PHP with fpm support and systemd integration

First create necessary DIR that will be used during compilation processs

```bash
# mkdir -p /etc/php/conf.d /usr/lib/php/modules /usr/share/pear
```

Create PCRE symbolic link to avoid: "configure: error: Could not find libpcre.(a|so) in /usr"

```
# ln -s /usr/lib64/libpcre.so.1.2.0 /usr/lib/libpcre.so
```

Then

```
# ./php-build.sh -fs php-5.6.12
```

where **-f** = fpm support, **s** = systemd integration

## Install

```bash
#  cd php-5.6.12 && make install
```

## Creating configuration file

PHP source code comes with 2 ini files versions: development and production how we're compiling for PROD server we type the following command. Adjust the ini directives according your needed

```bash
# cp -v php.ini-production /etc/php/php.ini
```

## Creating PHP-FPM configuration file

PHP-FPM (FastCGI Process Manager) is an alternative FastCGI implementation for PHP, bundled with the official PHP distribution since version 5.3.3. Adjust fpm values according your needed

```bash
# cp -pv /etc/php/php-fpm.conf.default /etc/php/php-fpm.conf
```

## Creating PHP-FPM init service

```bash
# cp -v ./sapi/fpm/php-fpm.service /usr/lib/systemd/system/php-fpm.service
```

If the user and group under the fpm process will be run does not exists then you must created it before start php-fpm service.

```bash
# groupadd --system www-data && \ 
useradd --system -m -d /var/www  -s /usr/sbin/nologin -g www-data www-data
```

Before command created the system group and system user: www-data where **-m** = create home DIR if not exsist, **-d** = user home DIR, **-s** = login shell (no login shell for this case because www-data was not created for login purpose), **-g** = what groups this user belongs to. 

For security reasons we will change the owner, group and perms for /var/www

```bash
# chown root:root -c /var/www/ && chmod 755  /var/www/ 
```
